README.md, before:

Python Seawater
===============

The CSIRO seawater toolbox ([SEAWATER-3.3](http://www.cmar.csiro.au/datacentre/ext_docs/seawater.htm))
for calculating the properties of sea water.  The package uses the formulas
from Unesco's joint panel on oceanographic tables and standards, UNESCO 1981
and UNESCO 1983 (EOS-80).

The EOS-80 library is considered now obsolete;  it is provided here for
compatibility with old scripts, and to allow a smooth transition to the new
TEOS-10.

Note
----
The Python version takes depth/pressure as the first dimension, i.e. M depths
by N positions.  The MatlabTM version does some guessing at this that we simply
ignore to avoid wrong computations.

Another difference is the default unit for sw.dist 'km' in the python version
while MatlabTM uses 'nm'.

|    P      |     S      |    T       |
|:---------:|:----------:|:----------:|
|    10     |   34.5487  |   28.7856  |
|    50     |   34.7275  |   28.4329  |
|   125     |   34.8605  |   22.8103  |
|   250     |   34.6810  |   10.2600  |
|   600     |   34.5680  |    6.8863  |
|  1000     |   34.5600  |    4.4036  |


gibbs vs. csiro
---------------

This table shows some function names in the gibbs library and the corresponding
function names in the csiro library.

+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| **Variable**                          | **SeaWater & ESO‐80**         | **Gibbs‐SeaWater (GSW) & TEOS‐10**                         |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Absolute Salinity                     |          NA                   | gsw.SA_from_SP(SP, p, long, lat)                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Conservative Temperature              |          NA                   | gsw.CT_from_t(SA, t, p)                                   |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| density (i.e. in situ density)        |  sw.dens(SP, t, p)            | gsw.rho_CT(SA, CT, p), or gsw.rho(SA, t, p), or           |
|                                       |                               | gsw.rho_CT25(SA, CT, p)                                   |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| potential density                     |  sw.pden(SP, t, p, pr)        | gsw.rho_CT(SA, CT, pr), or                                |
|                                       |                               | gsw.rho_CT25(SA, CT, pr)                                  |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| potential temperature                 |  sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, pr)        | gsw.pt_from_t(SA, t, p, pr)                               |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_0$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_o$, 0)   | gsw.sigma0_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_o$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 0)    |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_2$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_2$, 2000)| gsw.sigma2_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_2$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 2000) |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_4$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_4$, 4000)| gsw.sigma2_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_4$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 2000) |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| specific volume anomaly               |  sw.svan(SP, t, p)            | gsw.specvol_anom_CT(SA, CT, p)  or                        |
|                                       |                               | gsw.specvol_anom_CT25(SA, CT, p)                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| dynamic height anomaly                | -sw.gpan(SP, t, p)            | gsw.geo_strf_dyn_height(SA, CT, p, delta_p, interp_style) |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| geostrophic velocity                  |  sw.gvel(ga, lat, long)       | gsw.geostrophic_velocity(geo_str, long, lat, p)           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| N $^2$                                |  sw.bfrq(SP, t, p, lat)       | gsw.Nsquared_CT25(SA, CT, p, lat)                         |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| pressure from height                  |  sw.pres(-z, lat)             | gsw.p_from_z(z, lat)                                      |
| (SW uses depth, not height)           |                               |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| height from pressure                  |  z =  -sw.dpth(p, lat)        | gsw.z_from_p(p, lat)                                      |
| (SW outputs depth, not height)        |                               |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| in situ temperature from pt           |  sw.temp(SP, pt, p, pr)       | gsw.pt_from_t(SA, pt, pr, p)                              |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| sound speed                           |  sw.svel(SP, t, p)            | gsw.sound_speed(SA, t, p)                                 |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| isobaric heat capacity                |  sw.cp(SP, t, p)              | gsw.cp(SA, t, p)                                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| adiabatic lapse rate*                 |  sw.adtg(SP, t, p)            | gsw.adiabatic_lapse_rate(SA, t, p)                        |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| SP from cndr, (PSS‐78)                |  sw.salt(cndr, t, p)          | gsw.SP_from_cndr(cndr, t, p)                              |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| cndr from SP, (PSS‐78)                |  sw.cndr(SP, t, p)            | gsw.cndr_from_SP(SP, t, p)                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| distance                              |  sw.dist(lat, long, units)    | gsw.distance(long, lat, p)                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| gravitational acceleration            |  sw.g(lat, z)                 | gsw.grav(lat, p)                                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Coriolis parameter                    |  sw.f(lat)                    | gsw.f(lat)                                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| testing of all functions              |  sw.test()                    | gsw.test()                                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

\* The sw and gsw functions output the adiabatic lapse rate in different units
being  K (dbar) $^{-1}$  and  K Pa $^{-1}$  respectively.


More information:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/seawater/

Commit message:

Added Python vs Matlab notes in the README.

README.md, after:

Python Seawater
===============

The CSIRO seawater toolbox ([SEAWATER-3.3](http://www.cmar.csiro.au/datacentre/ext_docs/seawater.htm))
for calculating the properties of sea water.  The package uses the formulas
from Unesco's joint panel on oceanographic tables and standards, UNESCO 1981
and UNESCO 1983 (EOS-80).

The EOS-80 library is considered now obsolete;  it is provided here for
compatibility with old scripts, and to allow a smooth transition to the new
TEOS-10.

Notes
-----
The Python version default output unit for sw.dist is 'km' instead of  'nm'.

Another difference is that the Python version takes pressure as the first
dimension, i.e. M pressure by N positions.  The MatlabTM version does some
guessing at this that we simply ignore to confusions.  That is because matlab
have "two" types of 1D arrays (row or column), while python has just "1D"
arrays.  To form a "column" array one must actually create a 2D array M by 1.

|    P      |     S      |    T       |
|:---------:|:----------:|:----------:|
|    10     |   34.5487  |   28.7856  |
|    50     |   34.7275  |   28.4329  |
|   125     |   34.8605  |   22.8103  |
|   250     |   34.6810  |   10.2600  |
|   600     |   34.5680  |    6.8863  |
|  1000     |   34.5600  |    4.4036  |
|     .     |         .  |         .  |
|     .     |         .  |         .  |
|     .     |         .  |         .  |

There is a `test_octave.py` routine to test the Python library against an
available MatlabTM library inside Python via the oct2py package.  This version
was tested against seawater v3.3.

gibbs vs. csiro
---------------

This table shows some function names in the gibbs library and the corresponding
function names in the csiro library.

+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| **Variable**                          | **SeaWater & ESO‐80**         | **Gibbs‐SeaWater (GSW) & TEOS‐10**                         |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Absolute Salinity                     |          NA                   | gsw.SA_from_SP(SP, p, long, lat)                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Conservative Temperature              |          NA                   | gsw.CT_from_t(SA, t, p)                                   |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| density (i.e. in situ density)        |  sw.dens(SP, t, p)            | gsw.rho_CT(SA, CT, p), or gsw.rho(SA, t, p), or           |
|                                       |                               | gsw.rho_CT25(SA, CT, p)                                   |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| potential density                     |  sw.pden(SP, t, p, pr)        | gsw.rho_CT(SA, CT, pr), or                                |
|                                       |                               | gsw.rho_CT25(SA, CT, pr)                                  |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| potential temperature                 |  sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, pr)        | gsw.pt_from_t(SA, t, p, pr)                               |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_0$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_o$, 0)   | gsw.sigma0_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_o$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 0)    |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_2$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_2$, 2000)| gsw.sigma2_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_2$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 2000) |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| $\sigma_4$, using                     |  sw.dens(SP, $\theta_4$, 4000)| gsw.sigma2_CT(SA, CT)                                     |
|  $\theta_4$ = sw.ptmp(SP, t, p, 2000) |  -1000 kg m $^{-3}$           |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| specific volume anomaly               |  sw.svan(SP, t, p)            | gsw.specvol_anom_CT(SA, CT, p)  or                        |
|                                       |                               | gsw.specvol_anom_CT25(SA, CT, p)                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| dynamic height anomaly                | -sw.gpan(SP, t, p)            | gsw.geo_strf_dyn_height(SA, CT, p, delta_p, interp_style) |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| geostrophic velocity                  |  sw.gvel(ga, lat, long)       | gsw.geostrophic_velocity(geo_str, long, lat, p)           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| N $^2$                                |  sw.bfrq(SP, t, p, lat)       | gsw.Nsquared_CT25(SA, CT, p, lat)                         |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| pressure from height                  |  sw.pres(-z, lat)             | gsw.p_from_z(z, lat)                                      |
| (SW uses depth, not height)           |                               |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| height from pressure                  |  z =  -sw.dpth(p, lat)        | gsw.z_from_p(p, lat)                                      |
| (SW outputs depth, not height)        |                               |                                                           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| in situ temperature from pt           |  sw.temp(SP, pt, p, pr)       | gsw.pt_from_t(SA, pt, pr, p)                              |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| sound speed                           |  sw.svel(SP, t, p)            | gsw.sound_speed(SA, t, p)                                 |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| isobaric heat capacity                |  sw.cp(SP, t, p)              | gsw.cp(SA, t, p)                                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| adiabatic lapse rate*                 |  sw.adtg(SP, t, p)            | gsw.adiabatic_lapse_rate(SA, t, p)                        |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| SP from cndr, (PSS‐78)                |  sw.salt(cndr, t, p)          | gsw.SP_from_cndr(cndr, t, p)                              |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| cndr from SP, (PSS‐78)                |  sw.cndr(SP, t, p)            | gsw.cndr_from_SP(SP, t, p)                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| distance                              |  sw.dist(lat, long, units)    | gsw.distance(long, lat, p)                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| gravitational acceleration            |  sw.g(lat, z)                 | gsw.grav(lat, p)                                          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| Coriolis parameter                    |  sw.f(lat)                    | gsw.f(lat)                                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
| testing of all functions              |  sw.test()                    | gsw.test()                                                |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+

\* The sw and gsw functions output the adiabatic lapse rate in different units
being  K (dbar) $^{-1}$  and  K Pa $^{-1}$  respectively.


More information:
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/seawater/
